Add initial "Managed debugging with Unity IL2CPP" guide (#1276)
MicrosoftDocs/mixed-reality: mixed-reality-docs/managed-debugging-with-unity-il2cpp.md

---
title: Managed debugging with Unity IL2CPP
description: This article covers how to run a managed debugger on your Unity IL2CPP UWP project.
author: keveleigh
ms.author: kurtie
ms.date: 06/13/19
ms.topic: article
keywords: unity, visual studio, debugging, il2cpp
---

# Managed debugging with Unity IL2CPP

Follow these steps to attach a managed debugger to your Unity IL2CPP UWP build. This guide was originally developed for HoloLens and HoloLens 2.

1. Make sure **InternetClientServer** and **PrivateNetworkClientServer** are checked in Unity under the UWP Publishing Settings Capabilities.

    ![UWP Publishing Settings Capabilities](images/il2cpp-debugging-capabilities.png)

> 1. Unity UWP build settings:

Author: That's by-design, since markdown keeps track of your numbered list for you. I've seen this as a recommendation, since it makes adding steps to the list easier (instead of having to update the numbers of all subsequent steps)

    - Development Build
    - Script Debugging
    - Wait for Managed Debugger (optional)

    ![UWP Build Settings](images/il2cpp-debugging-build.png)

1. Build in Unity.

> 1. Build and deploy (Debug or Release, not Master) from the Visual Studio solution to your device. Optionally, verify **Internet (Client & Server)** and **Private Networks (Client & Server)** in the capabilities list in Package.appxmanifest in the solution.

Author: Added

1. Start the app on your device. Make sure your device is connected to the same network as your PC.
1. Make sure the device **is not** connected to your PC via USB.
1. Go to the Visual Studio solution that's created when you double click a script in Unity, where you can view and edit your C# scripts.
1. Debug -> Attach Unity Debugger. Look for your device in the list.

>     ![Attach Unity Debugger](images/il2cpp-debugging-attach.png)

Reviewer: Weren't there also step(s) that needed to be performed on the device itself to attach?

Author: Not that I can recall. Did you have any you were thinking of?

Reviewer: Nope. Just remembered seeing a dialog. The more i think, the more i remember it was just a "continue" button.

    ![UWP Publishing Settings Capabilities](images/il2cpp-debugging-capabilities.png)

1. Configure the Unity UWP build settings:
    - Development Build
    - Script Debugging
    - Wait for Managed Debugger (optional)

    ![UWP Build Settings](images/il2cpp-debugging-build.png)

1. Build in Unity.
1. Build and deploy from the Visual Studio solution to your device. You should build with the **Debug** or **Release** configurations. The **Master** configuration disables the Unity profiler and can prevent optimal debugging. Optionally, verify **Internet (Client & Server)** and **Private Networks (Client & Server)** in the capabilities list in Package.appxmanifest in the solution.
1. Start the app on your device. Make sure your device is connected to the same network as your PC.
1. Make sure the device **is not** connected to your PC via USB.
1. Go to the Visual Studio solution that's created when you double click a script in Unity, where you can view and edit your C# scripts.
1. Debug -> Attach Unity Debugger.

    ![Attach Unity Debugger](images/il2cpp-debugging-attach.png)

> 1. Look for your device in the list.

Reviewer: Do users need to select it? If so, i would say "Select your device in the list."

Author: ```suggestion
1. Select your device in the list and click "OK" to attach.
```
